# MATLAB-electricty-consumtpion-analysis

Margherita Piana, Avery Bantrup
Final Project EK 125

Biases 
https://www.powermetrix.com/2019/03/common-reasons-your-customers-energy-bills-may-be-inaccurate/
Electricity and energy companies are directly affected by biases in large sets of data, if they are not carefully addressed, these biases can result in the company losing money from these errors. It’s important that businesses involved in the energy industry keep a close eye on the data they receive from different sources, especially so, in order to accurately charge customers for the amount of energy that they are actually consuming and should by paying for. An article written by Powermetrix reports some of the specific holes that these companies can fall into. If inaccurate data is collected from whatever source and communicated incorrectly to the company, the company can either upcharge or undercharge their customers for their services. This issue may appear easier to fix than it actually is, once the inaccurate billing information is sent out, resolving the issue becomes complicated; the customer may cost the company money from the process of calling the company to get the correct bill or even just from losing a customer due to the mishap.
In this instance, false data is typically collected from faulty or damaged equipment. Because the equipment is not fully functional, it uses more energy to do the tasks it would normally perform with a low level of electricity. One example of this equipment might be a utility meter that would typically be installed by the company upon purchase. If this installation was done incorrectly or happens to break over time, this will lead to inaccurate data collection. This is what causes the big issues and leads to money being lost.
If data is collected manually, this causes even larger gaps in accuracy with the data, simply due to human error. 
	It is vital for electricity and energy companies to ensure that the data they collect and use is accurate in order to protect the integrity of the company and consistently charge their customers for the energy they use.


Background on the problem
Link to data set: http://data.un.org/Data.aspx?d=EDATA&f=cmID%3aEL.
Population data link: https://datatopics.worldbank.org/world-development-indicators/
	Electricity use all over the world has consistently grown over time causing an even greater strain on the environment. This energy consumption can be broken down into categories of the different sources that cause this strain. The data set used in this project includes data from a variety of these sources, such as: gross electricity production, combustible fuels, hydroelectricity, net electricity production, imports, households, agriculture. Values for these sources are reported for each country in the world by year from 2009-2019. This overall increase in electricity consumption will over time begin to affect the world more and more drastically, many systems are currently in place to fight the environmental destruction that is produced. Electricity is one of these factors that will increase the greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere.
	It is important to understand how these trends will continue to grow in order to better predict and prepare for the future state of our environment. Through this project, we are able to make these predictions and elaborate on what the most concerning factors are for specific countries. For those working to fight climate change, these conclusions are especially useful and applicable to every part of the world. Individual countries will be able to see a physical representation of their growth, and understand what they should do towards becoming a more sustainable part of the world.
	More specifically, this project observes electricity consumption from the five smallest and largest countries in the world, giving us a wide range of circumstances that affect this consumption. However, the entire data set includes data for every country in the world, and our project can be used to analyze these important things for every country as well. In smaller underdeveloped countries, we are able to better understand the distribution of this energy and make changes to combat the aspects adding to the deterioration of the environment.

This code was mayde to analyze in detail the electricty consumption in different countries.
